Information taken from https://meinstudium.fau.eu/studiengang/advanced-materials-and-processes-map-msc/ on Advanced Materials and Processes (MAP):

This international and interdisciplinary program taught in English provides both theoretical and practical knowledge in the fields of materials science and chemical and bioengineering to produce better materials more efficiently and sustainably.
Advanced Materials and Processes (MAP) is a combination of Materials Science and Engineering with Chemical and Biological Engineering. These disciplines play a key role in the development of novel technologies – without the development of new materials, a great range of key inventions from digital computers or jet engines to customized medical implants would not have been possible. Novel materials with new functionalities or improved properties, however, require specifically designed, economically and environmentally sustainable production processes – which might themselves depend on the development of new catalyst materials.
This intimate connection between processes and materials is of key importance for advances and innovations in virtually any field of technology. Chemical and Biological Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering are thus highly intertwined fields, which are, however, treated as separate subjects in traditional education.
MAP is an interdisciplinary Master’s degree program taught in English that provides a unique curriculum for the next generation of engineers. Students follow an individually tailored curriculum to learn the fundamentals of Chemical and Biological Engineering and/or Materials Science in small groups, and four focal subjects allow the students to further deepen their knowledge in key technological areas:
The program structure combines the core attributes of MAP with a streamlined and optimized module structure. A special element in the MAP curriculum is the opportunity to graduate with “additional qualifications” (“Zusatzstudien”). These optional courses provide students with certified additional competence and skill sets with a focus on scientific research or for a career in business and industry.
Additional qualifications (“Zusatzstudien”) are defined combinations of lectures, soft skills, practical courses and an internship that are tailored to provide enhanced competences with a focus on research qualifications or business and industry qualifications. Each of these two blocks consists of courses with a total of 30 ECTS points, successful participation will be certified on the graduation documents. The participation in additional qualifications is optional.
The content of each semester and many specific elements of the curriculum are described in detail on the MAP website.
31.05.
Applicants are required to have a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical and Biological Engineering, Materials Science and Engineering or related subjects.
MAP applicants are performance oriented, eager for knowledge, hardworking and diligent. Our students show strong motivation for interdisciplinary studies with a high level of interest in cutting-edge research topics relating to some or all of the MAP focal subjects. They demonstrate English proficiency through a high TOEFL (or equivalent) score.
Detailed information about the application procedure can be found on the MAP website.The program starts annually in the winter semester.
Our Student Advice and Career Service (IBZ) is the central point of contact for all questions about studying and starting a degree programme. Our Student Service Centres and subject advisors support you in planning your studies.

Degree: Master of Science.
Duration of studies in semester: 4.
Start of degree program: Winter semester.
Study location: Erlangen.
Number of students: 1-50.
Subject group: Engineering sciences.
Special ways to study: International degree program.
Teaching language: completely in English.
Admission Requirements: Qualification assessment.
Admission requirements (first semester): Qualification assessment.
Application deadline winter semester: 31.05.
Content-related admission requirements: Applicants are required to have a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical and Biological Engineering, Materials Science and Engineering or related subjects.
MAP applicants are performance oriented, eager for knowledge, hardworking and diligent. Our students show strong motivation for interdisciplinary studies with a high level of interest in cutting-edge research topics relating to some or all of the MAP focal subjects. They demonstrate English proficiency through a high TOEFL (or equivalent) score.
Detailed information about the application procedure can be found on the MAP website.The program starts annually in the winter semester.
German language skills for international applicants: No DSH, English (level B2, CEFR).